very exciting I'd like to thank you guys
for for coming here so early in the
morning and see a crowd like this and I
think all right job security so my name
is Matt rants and I work in developed at
export so for all of you who may be
submitting tech support incidents to DTS
at apple com there's a 50-50 chance that
you'll be talking to me the other
chances that you'll be talking to Ted
jus civic who will be up here a little
later to give the other half of this
presentation so what are we doing today
what are we talking about so Apple has
been trying to convey the message is
much possible that we feel that Java
applications are first-class citizens on
Mac OS 10 we offer a lot of tricks and
tips and techniques that you can use to
improve the user experience of your Java
app on Mac OS 10 make it feel as Mac
life as possible and we also have a lot
of deployment options for your end user
desktop applications that we're going to
be talking about today and most of the
technical details in this talk will be
regarding the 1412 a tu se that's now
available for mac OS 10 Jaguar and of
course Panther for Jaguar available in
software update and there's also a
developer update with tools and headers
and such that you can get from the ADC
website at connect a pecan so what are
we what specifically we're gonna be
talking about today I'm going to talk a
little bit about some some pertinent
directories on Mac OS 10 where where
where to put certain files and wit fine
things I'm going to talk about the aqua
look and feel for swing just out of
curiosity how many people were at the
State of the Union talk on Monday ok a
lot of you so I'll run through that
since you saw most of it already and I'm
going to talk about some cross-platform
you I programming techniques that will
benefit you on the Mac as well as on
Windows or Linux or anywhere else you're
looking to deploy and develop and I'm
going to talk about some specific things
that you can do for Mac os10 to make
things adhere better to the Aqua human
interface guidelines standards just
really make your java app is
indistinguishable as possible from a
cocoa or carbon application and Ted will
come up a little later he'll talk about
some of the runtime properties that we
have available on Mac OS 10 and all the
deployment options available to you as a
developer
so where things are like I said we're
now shipping or we now have available
the 14 1 SEK for mac OS 10 if developers
are coming over from from other
platforms typically we see a lot of
shell script based applications and one
of the more important areas and
locations for running a java app is the
concept of a java home so you can get to
things like Java and Java Sea and so on
and so forth so on Mac OS 10 we have a
we have a evilly rememberable and
implacable symbolic link that you can
see up on the screen here called flash
library / java / home and from there you
can go down tube in and view Java and
Java Sea etc etc and this will always be
pointing to the current version of Matt
of Java on Mac OS 10 so currently that's
one for one previously on 10 dot one
that pointed to 131 so that's something
that you'll never have to update in your
applications you always get the newest
version and as far as extensions and day
and I directories that's I guess the
equivalent all the platforms would be a
live x or Java library path on Mac OS 10
you can drop your day ni library of your
extension jars in library Java
extensions off the route as well as off
the home directory the user's home
directory so if you have some some jars
or de ni libraries that you don't want
to vail with the entire system and you
just want within the scope of a single
user you can drop them there as far as
doing jni work or vm indication work
with with native code the the vm headers
are available inside the Java VM
framework you can see the path up here
if you're doing development with Xcode
or formerly known as project builder all
you need to do is add the Java VM
framework to your project and the
headers will immediately be added and
you don't need to do in any additions to
your paths or anything like that so
let's talk a little bit about the aqua
look and feel a lot of you've already
seen this since you've been to the State
of the Union but I'm going to run
through it anyway aqua is the default
fling look and feel for java apps on Mac
OS 10 we have a we have symmetric weeks
in there like the screen menu bar
putting the menu bar for J frames like
we would like to say where it's supposed
to be we animate the default buttons on
on J frames and route pain
and we animate the indeterminate
progress bar but that the just a
barbershop stripe animation that you see
on a cocoa and carbon apps there's a
little bit on component sizing that you
might need to get used to in certain
places we sighs our components the way
you know the aquos that suggests that
they be so for example the picture
behind me here is of age a combo box and
a border layout and you can see the
window below is in metal and the
jcombobox is button expands to the size
of the complete eastern container there
the aqua version sums going on over
there the aqua version is basically
slides down to how you would expect it
to look in an aqua application on Mac OS
10 so there's things like that that you
might need that you might uh you might
see change from platform to platform as
we move over to 10 and we do similar
things with Jay buttons and with with
tabs and jay tabb pans and that's
something i'll be showing you in a
little while speaking of jay tabb hands
one of the other parts of the aqua stats
suggest that tabs to no matter how many
of them you have being a single row
other look and feels like like metal and
windows and what's the celestron motif
have support for multiple rows of tabs
aqua does not does not like that so with
our aqua look and feel for swing we made
a single grow of tabs and the problem
there is if what if you have more tabs
and fit on the window that's the whole
point of multiple rows so we created a
navigation control in 14 that will drop
a menu down for all the tabs you can't
see and that will allow the user to to
jump across to the tab that they may or
may not want to see visa these names of
the tabs of course aren't very
descriptive but so I'm just going to
pull up a demo here it shows you all the
things i'm talking about understand that
we've had quite a few questions about
tabs in the last couple days so so i
figured we should maybe show off what
we've got here in 14 so very simple demo
simply showing off what we have here in
aqua the tabs look this is a standard
font that you would see in a coco
application and you know keep in mind
that if it's the new OS were to come out
and say change the layout
font size and type of of all your
controls and labels and I can't imagine
why something like that would happen
you'll get all that stuff for free if
you use aqua swing you don't need to
really need to give much care to any of
that stuff so change the look and feel
to the metal and one of the things you
notice right away is that the the tab
icon size changed over here on on my tab
and my menu bar went down to the bottom
here so one of the things that Mac os10
does I'll go back to this tab icon this
is the icon that I'm using here and it's
the same one that I'm using at the top
here and that is being shrunk down by
APPA to have the tabs a beta stack so
you only get one size of tabs I know
there are some people who were hoping
there were multiple sizes I'm sorry to
say that there aren't and left right
bottom placement this is just regular
Java Java calls I can't remember what
the specific college for the tab pain to
set the alignment but it behaves as you
would expect in aqua and we have toolbar
buttons the toggle buttons as you would
expect toolbar toggle button we've got
the fall buttons and you can see the
animation can you oh good that's coming
out well and you know as you'd expect I
hit the enter key and the the button is
activated and so on and so forth and
here are my progress bars but my
indeterminate products bar seems to that
maybe a maybe a bug on my part let's see
if I remember to actually turn it on and
on well there it is so this is the
indeterminate progress bar at the top
and and animates as you would expect it
to on as the carbon or cocoa application
would do and at the bottom we have these
determinants progress bar and they still
actually animate as you move the window
around which is kind of neat that's
something that didn't happen in 131 and
it's one of our advantages from being a
cocoa base you I now instead of a
carbon-based do I I think that's enough
can we go back to the slide please
alright so let's talk a little about
cross-platform programming techniques a
lot of things that I see working with a
lot of developers how many developers we
have here that are new to the mac or
looking at the mac and
and coming over it's immaculate 10 Wow
so most of this crowd are people who are
primarily naturalist ends all the
developers that's great excellent but
I'd like to extend a warm welcome to the
people who are coming over to last year
the last year the crowd was mostly
windows and Solaris people coming over
the mac so it's great to see a crowd to
stick so this this list of the tips and
tricks that I came up with basically I
put together from working with a lot of
developers coming over the platform and
looking at some common mistakes or
preconceptions that they had that they
had in their heads about how Java
behaved on every platform and actually
some of it I've changed in the last 18
hours just from my experience in in the
java lab downstairs so that's how
committed I am to you so let's talk a
little bit about working with components
this is kind of fuzzy but generally you
know you want to do as little as
possible when you're styling and sizing
your components in swing if you if you
need to ask if you need to figure out
you're making a custom component you
want to know how big to make it you want
to know what color to make the
background you want to know what font to
be using or what kind of icons to be
using for a tech locks for example or
you know get the striped background that
you see in all the awkward controls you
can usually ask the UI manager what to
do for these for these for these kinds
of things and all these properties that
i have here for example the combo box
back around the jtech box menu item
check icon those are all swing standard
properties those aren't Mac specific
things one of the greatest things to do
is a swing developer on something that I
did very early on when I started to work
at Apple is just write a little unit
test that called you I manager get the
fault and just dump all the keys and
values those and and that can do a lot
of a lot of good if you're looking to
create custom components and you don't
know how to make the aqua stripe
background for example you don't know
what font to use you don't know what I
confused for a checkbox for example and
far as sizing emplacement really the
easiest thing the best thing that I
would Matt can tell you to do is use the
layout managers layout managers do most
of the work for you they take care of
spacing they take care of size our
layout managers unless you unless you
you know customizing
typically do their best to size and
space things according to the Aqua H i
spec and they respect preferred size in
the most case you usually want to make
sure you're using a layout manager at
the lowest level that respect the
preferred size of a button for example
the one first one that comes to mind is
flowlayout obviously so I'm going to
talk a little bit about day desktop pain
and I don't see a lot of people using it
that much anymore but I just wanted to
mention it our big mantra is just say no
to Jay desktop pain the real reason is
there's really no equivalent to it on
the Macintosh carbon and Coco have no
concept of an MDI in your face and it's
very confusing to user and all and I'll
show you what I mean in a second there
are plenty of alternatives to it you
know I'd like I said I don't see a lot
of people using it anymore most people
are using at least on the Mac either
it's just a multiple frame case if you
have a document document based
application like a text editor or you
know with applications like jbuilder
limewire project builder itunes all
these other ones have not necessarily
just one window but you know a single
frame that has a bunch of different
containers that move in and out and you
know navigation tabs and stuff like that
and that's perfectly acceptable and we
definitely encourage that kind of
development so this is what I was
talking about a second ago you can see
the day desktop paint up here and
there's a window over here with the taxi
cab and it appears to be of dragged off
screen or just over to the right and
there's bbedit in the background and you
would expect you know my grandmother
might expect that you know the other
side of that window should be over
bbedit but we don't know where that
window has gone it's vanished and you
know we also to docs here and you know I
don't know where I minimize one window
to if it's down in this stock in this
other one it's really kind of
counterintuitive and it doesn't really
look like a Mac OS kind application in
my opinion so our advice is stay away so
talk about menu shortcuts now this is
something that I still see a lot i
talked about it last year but we have a
new generation of developers i guess who
maybe weren't here so the biggest one of
the biggest things i see with with menu
development is that people just
typically from doing development
primarily on windows
see the control key as the shortcut and
they hard code the control key is in
menu shortcut that's really not the
thing to do there's a much easier way of
doing it you can just ask the tool kit
at the AWC toolkit to get the menu
shortcut key mask and it'll return
control for you on Windows it'll return
control for you on Linux overturn
command or meta on the max and this is
one call that you need to make you don't
need to check your OS version or less
vendor or anything like that and you'll
get it every time you're basically you
know pushing the work off to the host
platform which is really what job is
supposed to be doing another things
another thing we would suggest is
checking out the Aqua hoi guidelines to
find out what what leverage shortcuts to
use things like s4 save and o4 open
we've got a big grid there for you know
what the standard application things are
so you can make your app look exactly
like bbedit or Xcode or if that's you
want and so what's the other thing
mnemonics this is just a cosmetic thing
worth mentioning the aqua human
interface guidelines really makes no
mention of mnemonics and they will work
in aqua swing if you use them with the
exception of the screen menu bar if you
have mnemonics and you're in your menu
item from the screen menu bar as soon as
it goes up there we're not going to
paint them anymore because that's kind
of our prerogative to conform to the H I
guidelines if you have them you know
with other controls or anything like
that they'll still be painted but for
menu mnemonics we really suggest either
conditionally placing them or not using
them at all here if you're targeting the
mac so contextual menus and mouse clicks
right clicks control clicks that's the
trick isn't it which is it so it could
be either it depends on what kind of
math your user has and as a developer
you don't know who's going to be using
your application so this can get to be a
mess fortunately son has provided an
easy method for this very similar the
menu shortcut mass called is pop-up
trigger you ask the mouse event should I
be showing a pop up here and it tells
you true or false it again defers the
works of the host platform that's all
you have to do about it no checking for
masks or button numbers or anything like
that the only trick is that you
typically want to in your mouth listener
check put this in the mouth press and
the mouse the least methods on Windows
it does it in one I believe windows
doesn't matter
least and the mac i believe its mouth
press i might have been backwards the
idea is used both and you know again
control left is not button to so those
don't register the same events on the
math you know all max come with a
one-button mouth so typically the pop-up
trigger is a control click somebody buys
the two button Mouse later and then they
have the right click as the pop-up
triggered that is not the same event in
java so you really should use this
abstracted method because then you don't
have to worry about it so I wanted to
talk quickly about file access I'm kind
of being kind of being a you know really
high level and abstract here you know
there's different cases all the time but
really try not to hard code file paths
when you're getting to think use things
like file dialogues use you know the
user directory in the user home use the
file director this file separator system
property which gives you either /er
backslash or you know whatever whatever
is appropriate for the for the host
platform if you have things like image
files or anything that you need to load
into your application it's very easy to
just put those on the class app and then
get to them using calls like class
loader get system resource there are a
bunch of equivalent calls like that and
basically you can access anything on the
class task that'll do that kind of thing
and it's really handy to use with things
like image icons or images and then you
don't have to use any kind of file path
at all you just use the file name and
that's really handy so a little bit
about image formats this is something
that's come up this is more of a
performance issue but since it deals
with platform differences in image
formats that i wanted to bring it up the
an index color model in particular on
mac OS 10 is just not native we're not
not acceptable to core graphics so
regardless of what we do in java those
kind of images are going to perform
badly core graphics also prefers images
or color models with with with with an
alpha value specified when you're
working with a bufferedimage we suggest
that you use the appropriate methods
like create image or the best is create
compatible images again that will push
the work off to the host platform 22
[Music]
oh yeah we'll put some puts the work off
to the post platform to create a color
model and image format that's that's
most most compatible to the host
platform and that'll work for you on
windows too so and volatile limits has
similar there are similar similar
methods for that would create volatile
image and so on and so forth there's an
we're going to talk a little more about
this in the the Java performance talk
our graphics engineer will be talking a
lot about this kind of thing and he
probably won't forget what he's talking
about so you should just go to that
session so I'm going to talk a little
bit about coding for Mac OS 10 things
that you can do specifically on the Mac
without much with without a whole lot of
impact on your code base and on the way
you deploy or develop and talk about
illustrating document changes scrollbar
policies toolbar button file dialogs our
new extended awt API for doing things
like handling the items in the
application menu opening documents that
you may want to write or save to and I'm
going to talk about the Apple extended
i/o class also so document changes first
off let me notice anybody's working on
Mac OS 10 if you're working in BB edit
or a project builder or anything like
that you notice whenever you have unsafe
work you get a little black dot in the
in the closed box well believe it or not
you can do that with your java
application we've added a little client
property to j frames and jane i believe
Jay internal frames also you just get
the root planing the root pain and you
set a client property called windows
modified to either true or false and
then we'll just immediately paint that
little black dot in the closed box so if
you have a document based application
you want to do this kind of thing it's
very simple and it's instantaneous is
really not a lag or anything like that
you don't need to do any kind of
threading games to make sure the awt has
been updated is pretty instantaneous so
scrollbar policies the Aqua age I
guidelines talk about if you have a
window with scrollable content where
it's potentially scrollable content even
if your content is not moving off the
complete area yet you should show the
scroll bars at all times even if that's
the time they're disabled so on the Left
I have an example of you know somebody
who's read the H I guidelines and set
their scrollbar policies to true or
always for vertical and horizontal
because they expect the content will at
some point go
both down and to the right and on the
right is somebody who didn't read the
Aqua thi guidelines or fell asleep
during this talk and didn't do so so I
want to talk about toolbar buttons too
if you put a jbutton in a day toolbar in
aqua you'll get the square tool bar
style button as you'd expect some people
want to watch style buttons without a
day toolbar and to do that it's another
client property simply call quick climb
property to and set j button button type
to toolbar and in my aqua demo you might
have noticed that I had a toolbar
buttons floating around in a jpanel
there and that's exactly what I did so
file dialog this is something that came
up in the lab a couple times so a lot of
people are inclined to use jfilechooser
because they're using swing and this is
in the Java x-wing package but we really
suggest using the AWT file dialog and
the reason for that is that it's you
know it very simply it's heavy weight so
it's going to use the do s file dialog
you're going to get the column view in
Jaguar or in Panther out you know i'm
not sure what they're calling it in
panther anymore but there's a whole new
file dialog and Panther and if you use
the aw file dialog in your java apps
when your java app gets moved on to a
system with panther on it you will get
that file dialog you won't need to wait
for us to rewrite file chooser to local
J file chooser to look like that answer
dialogue for example and you do that
with a simple system property Apple awt
use file dialog patches packages by the
way I didn't mention this at the
beginning and saw if people are inclined
to you know write this stuff down
furious so you don't need to worry about
it because it is all on the web and
we'll be giving you a link later so if
you've been cursing me from moving too
fast please don't worry about and
basically this this file dialog packages
lets you not navigate inside app and
packages file package files and normally
those are technically folders so a dump
file dialog might try to go into those
and navigate the contents and resources
and so on and so forth so if you slip
this property you can actually select
those as files which might be something
that you want to do in your application
so now I want to talk about our extended
AWC api's this is the replacement for
the mrj toolkit for those who might have
been around long enough to note to know
those api's there's basically two real
classes that you need to know about
there's the Apple II awt application
which has two important methods one of
them is to set the Preferences menu to
enabled and that you know like it sounds
enables the Preferences menu item and
there's another method called add
application listener and what that does
is this is your hook into being able to
handle all the items in the application
menu things like the about application
the preferences and the quit menu item
and you would do that with the
application adapter class there's also
an interface called application listener
but you know in the standard event model
like they have in Java they have
adapters for almost every listener we've
done the same thing and we really
suggest that you extend the adapter
class just to make your code a little
more readable so as far as handling
system Apple events there are some extra
some extra methods available to you in
the application listener the application
adapter there's the open application
event which basically once the UI is
finished loading and the open
application apple event has been
received by the the app you can
basically register a call back if
there's anything you want to do like
pull up the tip of the day or a splash
screen or anything like that and new to
the Java update that was available as of
friday there is a reopening application
and this is what happens when you click
on the dock like if you have no windows
open in safari and you focus safari up
to the front by by clicking on its dock
icon you'll notice that it brings up a
blank window or bbedit does the same
thing and text editors the same thing
and that's a reopen application event so
you can receive that reopen application
event and decide to put up your own
blank window if you want there's also an
open file handler which this is kind of
cool this is something that really isn't
doable to easily on other platforms you
know it'll let you register document
types to your application if you have a
document based app and you want to be
able to double click your documents or
drag them over the application icon and
have the application lon
and open in your app this is this is how
you would do that this is your hook into
that it's basically a hook into launch
services and so there's two parts of it
you register the handle open file method
you implement that method and then you
have to go into the info.plist and
register your CF bundle document sites
which is there's nothing job at specific
about that that's just part of the
standard Mac os10 documentation so if
you go over to the bundle services
documentation find out how to tell
launch services what kind of document
you want to you want to own and then
you're ready to go and there's a print
file handler so if you're receiving
Apple events from another application or
from the finder you highlight it and say
print this is another hook in for you to
handle that event and maybe print to
file from the finder one other call
worth mentioning is the get mouse
location on screen this is in the
application class and this basically
let's get the coordinates of the mouse
anywhere on screen why is that so
special well you could use you know a
listener on your window or on your
components or anything like that to get
the location but that's only going to
work while the mouse is above that
component while it's in the real estate
that that component occupied so this
method will let you do it anywhere on
the screen even if it's not in Java real
estate and some application developers
especially in education space tend to
want to do that kind of thing so one
other thing worth mentioning is the the
cocoa component class this is something
that I think Scott mentioned in the in
the state of the union the other day it
basically allows you to embed any custom
NS view any cocoa component inside your
java application so why do things you
know some simple native drawing we have
we also have a sample code for the QD
cocoa component on our developer website
and that's actually what scott demoed to
you on Monday using the the eyesight and
the sequence grabber from quick time and
since it's part of our pure Java API is
also available to athletes and java web
start and find out more about this you
can go to our java native integration
talk session 6 20 which is on friday i
believe ok thursday ok
and one last class the extended IO clef
the file manager now this is something
that if you're new to the platform or if
you're ten only it's probably not very
interesting to you this is basically our
preservation of Mac OS 9 funk
functionality for people who needed it
the fine folder methods for things like
the Preferences folder constant defined
in the mac events headers and the
applications folder for example set into
set and get file creator and file type
stuff old resource stuff that's stuff
that you don't need to do on Mac OS 10
if you have legacy stuff from Mac OS 9
if you're trying to bring over and
you're still dependent on certain things
like that this is the class you want to
use and it also gives you a method for
opening URLs with the default browser
but again that's something that you
might not really need to do because on
Mac OS 10 you can simply pass open and a
URL to the terminal and that will talk
to launch services and launch whatever
browser you want and to get to that from
Java you just pass in those two strings
to runtime exec and you're done so now I
want to do a little demo to you about a
just basically show you about use of the
the application menu and the application
adapter and listeners so this is my
little text editor I'm afraid it's not
to feature rich but it gets the job done
by creating document here simple text
editor low WBC and you can see I don't
have spell checking in here so I can
save this and you know write it out to
the desktop here's my awt file dialog
you know it doesn't look like it's
switched over to native or anything like
that but it does look exactly like a Mac
os10 file dialog telling receive it on
the desktop is test file and there it is
on the desktop and so this is part of
what I did with the the info.plist and
the handling of the open file
application so I can quit out of this
application now and I can just
double-click the document and it will
launch out my job app and open up the
document as if it were written in carbon
or cocoa very simple and really the way
that I do this it's not particularly
pleasant unfortunately
there's a very there's a very simple but
you know hard to get used to document
format that you specifying the plist
here called C and funds will document
types and here I've specified an
extension of WWDC I created I provided
an icon file so that's why you have a
little icon there instead of just some
blank document and the type name
actually isn't necessary but I put it in
there anyway and really that's all it
takes you just have to add you just have
to register a file a file name extension
and put it in this info.plist key and of
course on the code side to implement the
handle open file and then you're ready
to go so as far as the reopen
application in the reopen event so I'm
going to go over to Safari here and now
my text editor is not in the background
so I'm going to click on the dock and
now the reopen applicaiton the reopen
event has been passed through and you
can see that a new window came up for me
that was what I did by registering for
the reopened call back i created a new
window and you know I tied it up to the
preferences so this is what i did i
called set preferences menu item enabled
and i did a handle preferences brought
up my preferences dialog and I've got
the reopen preference set here so if I
set that it shouldn't create a new
window anymore functional preferences
and then there's a there's the about
handler up here just create a simple
about box and last but not least of
course is the quit item now the quit
menu item will by default call system
exit so it's in your best interest to in
to override the handle quit application
method in case you have things going on
with in case you have unsaved work so if
I go over to the quit item you know the
handle quit method gets called and I
bring up this dialog saying i have
unsaved work do I want to quit anyway
and if I say yes it'll quit anyway and
that's just a quick demo of that you
know without those without those methods
implemented you can lose a lot of look
and feel as far as you know Mac OS 10
applications concern you basically have
a function lyst application menu that's
up there and your users except
thing is to work just like any other
application so I just showed you a bunch
of apple api's at Apple specific api's
and some of you might be saying oh great
they're locking us in absolutely not
there's no reason for you to be able to
do to do this and not be locked and be
locked into the platform you don't need
to worry about client or runtime
properties you can set those and you
know if the if another platform is not
looking for them it's not looking for
them nothing's going to happen as far as
use of the api's well very simple the
easiest thing to do would be just to
isolate all those all those handler
methods in a separate class that you
register with a simple static method and
you know like a like a factory type of
method that you simply call from
reflection either in your main method or
in the in the constructor main class
wherever your initialization code is
just use class.forname to bring it up
and you know basically if it's not there
then it won't load but if you load the
class statically what happens is you
know Java will try to to recognize the
application adapter that it's extended
you'll get a bunch of class no class
that found errors on Windows and you
don't want that so if you use reflection
to load these up things should be fine
and we've got a sample that does this
it's called OS 10 adapter and it's on
our sample code website so at this point
i want to bring set up to talk about
runtime properties and deployment
options the other half to talk Ted great
thanks
[Applause]
alright so what I'm going to talk to you
about are just run time properties that
you can set on your application without
having to recompile so say you've
already deployed on Windows or something
like that or solaris Linux what these
are properties that you can set that
will give you an aqua type functionality
but you don't have to rebuild and stuff
like that these of course will go into
the Java properties key in the
info.plist or the Java 141 plugin
settings application now you can also
pass these in on the command line
something like that so if you're doing
something like a j2ee stuff or something
you know you can pass it in but for the
most part we prefer application bundles
and stuff like that versus a shell
script so one of these is the aqua look
and feel the screen menu bar all you
have to do is set the Aqua laf use
screen menu bar to true and it will
actually move the screen menu bar or the
menu bar up to the screen level normally
and say like a swing application it's
actually in the frame itself and with
this you can actually get this so what
you'd expect on Macintosh the resize
control down here in the bottom left
hand corner you can see I have this
little textured surface thing you know
you can drag this to resize it you can
add that on again with the property by
just setting that true and without
having to recompile your application in
the course if you want the brushed metal
look and feel it's just another setting
the property true and again like Matt
said these properties are all up on the
web and our release notes and then we
have a great documentation Mac os10 Java
that will point you to at the end that
has all these so you don't worry about
copying them down so graphics rendering
by default when you bring up your
application you get the aqua look and
feel for free unless you have specified
another look and feel and actually when
you're doing
anti-aliasing you actually get
anti-aliasing for your text for free in
aqua and we enable it by default if you
don't like that you can actually set
this property to false Apple awt text
anti-aliasing and what that will do for
you is then your text will look at you
want to other platforms but again you
don't have to recompile the top one awt
anti-aliasing is also is actually false
button by default and now i'm talking
about the properties over here and there
the substitutes for the graphics
rendering him and we would prefer if you
actually use the graphic rendering hint
instead but if you don't want to
recompile and stuff we actually have
these properties for you now the next
three of them you actually you may want
to copy down the the possible values for
these because we just noticed that they
weren't document anymore so I got these
out of the source and they're actually
case sensitive too they will be
documented though we'll put up a Q&A in
the meantime until they actually get up
there on the web but as you can see
there's a couple more properties that
you can set to affect your fractional
metrics interpolation and how its
rendered I'll be a few seconds if you
want to talk to that down and if if you
didn't get this copied down come up
afterwards and we can actually just give
you that so full screen mode you know
it's a new feature in 141 and we
actually have a few properties that you
can use when developing your application
and also when you're deploying your
application the top to fake full screen
or the top one what that does is it will
give you a window that's the size of
your screen but doesn't actually you
know grab the whole screen that's useful
and debugging to you know if you want to
switch to your blogger and stuff like
that it's not you not grab them the
whole screen the second one the Apple
awt full screen space
when we go to the full screen mode if
you're changing the resolution we
actually do a really nice fade to it and
stuff like that if you're not changing
the resolution we just go straight to
full screen mode but if you want that
nice fade set this property to true and
we'll do the nice fade for you another
one the third one the full screen
capture all display what that does is
and that one's true by default is when
you go into full screen mode if you have
multiple monitor we also black out those
monitor if they like you want to have
full screen on one monitor and then have
like a borderless window on another
monitor to make it look like you have to
full screen windows you'd want to set
that to fall and then of course if you
want if you're going for a full kiosk
mode type application and you don't want
the cursor up there at all the last
property you can set that to fall and
that will take care of that for you
again these are all documented up on our
website so you don't have to write them
down if you don't want it so window
positioning we we have a couple of
properties that that we have set for the
aquas to make things work as people
would expect on that mac OS 10 but at
times they cause problems with the
developers when they're writing their
software and so we add these properties
so that you can actually change how it
work so the four-state creation if that
was true what it would do is if you were
to create the window off screen you can
actually set that to true and it would
force it to be on the screen and then
the second one for safe programming
position that one is true and what that
does is try to prevent you from
accidentally pushing it off the screen
the window now some people actually like
to push to create Windows off-screen and
push screen windows off-screen so that
they can do rendering to it and move it
on screen stuff like that if so you
might want to set this to to fall
and then also to keep the user from
moving things off-screen we also have a
property for that if you want the user
to be able to move things on screen and
maybe not be able to get to them you can
set that to true so all those properties
again now you can set that all those
properties without affecting you know
recompiling your application so if you
bring your application over to Matco is
tense and you don't want to recompile
that's how you can do it and actually
that brings us to our next slide the
deployment options so what we're going
to talk about is with the athletes use
swords we have applet support talk a
little bit about that java web start
we've had since just one is 131 days and
then application bundles this is
actually our preferred deployment way on
Mac OS 10 we do have double clickable
jar support but unless you just have a
single jar and you don't have any
support files it's I mean it'll it'll
definitely work but it's just not the
recommended way the icon is not custom
it doesn't look like an application
stuff like that and of course you have
shell scripts what we really discourage
that unless you're doing some enterprise
deployment or something like that and so
I'm not really even going to talk about
Safari of course one dido you get full
jdk 141 support we have the Java plug-in
available for Safari and by default you
get the aqua look and feel for free as
in all apolis this can be affected in
the Java plug-in settings application if
you want to if you want to set a default
property or something like that you can
do that in this a job of plug-in
settings application is actually in the
application utilities Java folder and
you can manage your certificates java
console jar caching all that in there
and actually we have another session
tomorrow that you can go to and stop
go into more detail about it he'll show
you the job of console and all the cool
debugging and stuff like that we now
have four Safari and one for one so Java
Web Start is well i'll go ahead and
explain it it's for application
deployment it's it's a way that you can
actually deploy an application over the
web but what you do is you start with a
link on a web page eclipse that your
user clicks on that link and then the
separate application launches you can
actually pull your applications out of
the browser of your applets it's really
kind of nice if the browser is causing
the issues you can just have a separate
deployable application another cool
thing is that if the user is
disconnected from the web is the
application setup properly he can steal
them or they can still run the
application your icon that you set in
the jnlp file we actually will use that
in the dock when you're running your
application and there is also a
preference application for the java web
start it's also in the application
utility Java folder called the java web
start and it's just that's what it is
and that has a java console just like
the applets though you can manager if it
gets in there you can also configure
when you want to java web start
application maybe two or three times
what we'll do is we'll actually create
one on the desktop for you if that's
something that you don't want you can
actually disable that in this this
application and then you know everything
will just work you have to go back to
this application to run your java web
start applications or click on the link
again and again there's more information
about this tomorrow and the 619 java in
the web to definitely attend that if you
want so the next one that we're going to
talk about is the application bundle now
what this is is like Matt was saying is
application bundles on Mac os10 are
actually folder and this is actually a
one of the folders opened up so that I
can get a kind of give you a tour of it
in the Java perspective so the first
thing on the list is the content folder
and pretty much everything goes into
that and that's just the root folder
within the application bundle the top
one info.plist I'm going to come back to
that that's actually the one that
confuse everything and says where
everything is and I'll go into detail
about that one the next one down the
java application which is in the mac OS
folder what that is is actually a native
stub that we used to launch the JVM read
the properties and the info.plist and
stuff like that and get your application
up and running if you use jar bundler or
Xcode we place that for you we actually
have documentation for where you can get
that if you want to create your own
bundles or something like that next one
the package info that's your type of
creator on Mac OS 10 it's not java
specific but it's something that you'll
definitely want to look look into and
then underneath that as the resources
directory now if you've gone to any of
the localization talk for mac OS 10
you'll see that you know if you have
these folders in your resources
directory what will happen is when you
launch your application we actually look
at the international settings of your
anier system preferences and we kind of
go down the list that you have in your
system preferences and when we find a
match with one that you have in this
folder will actually invoke the JVM with
that look how that font the the keyboard
all set up for you and so you can
actually set up your application so that
if you have the fonts and you have a
dialogues all set up for say Japanese or
French or something like that that
uncommon a system where they want it to
come up in French it'll just happen and
i'll just work in very macintosh way
down also in that resources folder is
the java folder now this is essentially
where everything Java related goes of
course and this one I only have my jar
but you know if you have tools that
support your application or files or
something like that you also put them in
that folder I'm going to show you that
in a demo a little bit and show you how
you can actually set it so your working
directory is that jar java folder the
nice thing about it is you just have a
single application icon you don't have a
bunch of different app icons in a folder
and the end user doesn't have to figure
out which file to double-click on also
when they move things around there just
dragging a single application and stuff
and so what we encourage you to do is
put everything in that folder if you
want like see utilities preferences etc
and i'll be showing you that again and
then of course there's a java
application icon what that is if that's
the icon for your application lights on
the desktop we have a default one that
we actually provide for you and i'll be
showing you that so this is the
info.plist and this is the one I told
you I be coming back to so this is the
one that actually controls everything
for this is it I mean it's it's also
system-wide where you can set like your
bundle name your icon and stuff like
that but inside of there there's
actually a Java dictionary and that Java
dictionary is useful for setting your
your classpath your main class your
properties arguments to main stuff like
that now there's two I guess short test
for macros that we use in there the app
package and that is a when you use this
within the info.plist within the Java
dictionary that is the path to the
inside folder of your application
package so if the person moves things
around on your hard drive you always
have a path to it on their hard drive so
if they decide they don't want this in
the Applications folder they want it in
on their desktop or something like that
it's not you'll still be able to find
everything relative now the job of root
what that does that actually points to
the Java folder inside the application
bundle and so a lot of times what you'll
do is you'll use this for on your
classpath because you'll use Java route
/ and then
jars for your classpath and then that
way it's always pointing to the Java
folder and so the working directory is a
key that typically the when you
double-click your application the either
property that your working directory is
just inside the application package now
it's what you can do is set the working
directory to the Java root and that will
make it so everything is in the job of
foliar like I was telling you earlier
and so you complete your support files
and stuff like that I'll actually be
showing you that in my demo but it I
pretty much always set that but we leave
you the option so that if you didn't
want to set that as your working
directory you can set it to something
else now the JVM version is the next one
this key that's very key it actually you
can pick which Java verte vm that you
actually want to run the format is the
same as java web start and i have a lift
up here that kind of shows how things
would would work so if you only specify
one for one then you would only run on
one full one if you won 3-1 same thing
only 131 if say you wanted to run in all
variations of 14 you can use the one dot
4 star and if you want to run on one dot
for 1251 got six on and on you can use
the one dot 4 plus now this is something
that you're going to have to think about
because you know it as job and move
forward some things change occasionally
things like between 12 and 13 some
things need to be set to visible and
stuff like that so you want to be
careful about what you think what you
actually set that too now the reason I
have the X is on the 14 1 and the 131 is
because say you have the 131 value in
there and 132 comes down 131 will no
longer be available on your system and
if you lock yourself into 131 or say 14
and then when an updated version of Java
comes out your application will no
longer run so that's why I have those
X's on their thing probably don't want
these so localization I talked a little
bit about this one is describing the
application bundle you know in the
international panel of your system
preferences you can set your preferred
locale and the hierarchy and and stuff
and then I showed you the El proj folder
and the resources now you don't have to
actually have anything in those folders
all you have to do is create the folder
and then we just assume that your
application is a capable of handling
those double clickable jar just get the
default locale for the top one that they
have selected in their international
preferences and say they have Japanese
selected then a double clickable jar
will automatically be invoked in the
Japanese with a Japanese swamps and
keyboard and all that so now the
info.plist we used to have a property
that we would set for your application
name in the upper left-hand corner of
the application window or the menu bar
but we're actually recommending now that
you just use the scandal standard
info.plist bundles CF bundle name and if
that value is set will actually grab
that value the cool thing about using
the CF bundle name is its localizable so
you can have your English name of your
application up in the menu bar on an
English system and then you can have the
french or german one on the other
systems and so it all just looks like
what you they expect it to also if you
use the local ICF bundle names their
names will actually change on the
desktop to reflect that the same thing
so the name in the menu bar matches
what's on the desktop so Xcode they
haven't been focusing on Java bet they
will for the future bills at X
and but it still works great for
developing and deploying applications
for mac OS 10 I use a lot and it's got
the gdb and JTB integrate into it or a
variation of the JDB and so you can
develop native code and Java code in the
same application we actually have quite
a few samples on a developer website
that show that if they you want to debug
java and native code at the same time
what people typically do is they'll use
the gdb jdb the Java debugger in in
Xcode and then gdb from the command line
and so that you can attach the processes
you can actually be step into your
native code and then when you could
cross the jni bridge step through the
Java code also of course Xcode has the
graphical interface 4gb and JTB so
that's really nice i mean i have used
the command line version but this is
much easier than trying to remember
things you if you have jars that you
want to include in your application you
can either have them included in the
application bundle within that Java
folder or you can actually have it
merged the jars in so you can have just
one giant jar in your application folder
and of course Xcode is available for
deploying applications applets jars you
can do well just pretty much anything
with it you can do java web start but we
don't actually have like a template for
doing web start stuff but of course he
can do any java our native code so jar
bundler I don't have many lines on it
but it's actually a great tool and I'm
going to give you a demo about it this
is our application builder this is the
one that was telling you about if you
didn't want to recompile your stuff this
is the application that you'd want to be
used to package up your application one
of the things that we have done is if
there's a developer that we're very
interested in bringing to our platform
if their applications written in pure
java we'll invite them over for a
meeting and will download their windows
application or their linux version of
their application copy all the jars over
to Matco
10 use jar bundler to package it up and
then when we're meeting with them to
discuss them bringing their application
to Mac os10 we actually show so I'm
running on it it's quite influential
when you do that so like I said it's a
quick port solution so let's go over to
the demo machine and I'll actually show
you a version of that so this is robo
code I don't off the web it's actually a
pretty cool application that after WWDC
I'm gonna actually learn to use and
write some tanks for but as you can see
this folder is how on most platforms
that applications are deployed you know
and for some people it's not exactly
clear that you know if you double-click
this jar you know this is how you launch
the application so as you see it is
coming up we we picked the name of the
domain class for the application name
but none of these properties are set for
aqua you get the aqua look and feel but
you don't get the screen menu bar and
stuff like that with a jar you know so
let me actually show you how we can
package this up and make an application
that somebody would expect on Mac OS 10
and then we can also add the properties
and stuff like that to move the screen
menu bar and do well I'll show you all
that so this is jar bundler this is in
the developer tools for the 141 update
and what you can do is say alright we
know that the main class is in the is in
the robotoid jar so let's just go ahead
and select that jar it actually picks
the the main class for me I think it
reads it out at the manifest and then if
not it'll actually search through there
and there's actually it's searched
through and found a couple of other
means that we'll just go with the real
one there's arguments the main that you
want to pass in you can set these in
here we of course we want the screen
menu bar simple checkbox but this what
this is doing is it's actually setting
that property for you
that I talked about earlier to use the
screen menu bar and then this is the jvm
version for this one I'm fully expecting
it to work with 15 16 and beyond so I'm
going to leave it with 14 plus again if
you want to restrict it to this one for
dot X he's the 14 * so this sets up the
classpath and that and as you can see is
I have the Java route the robotoid jar
that's how will be defined in the
info.plist if there's properties that
you want to add say like if you want to
add say the brushed metal or something
like that you can add it in by using
this button right here we just set the
key value and stuff like that so the CF
bundle name that's what I was talking to
you about it's a localizable property
that for the application name we'll just
call this robo code I'm going to set the
working directory to inside the
application package so it's actually
inside the jar folder and then if you
want to set the heap size that the
maximum heap size these are all strings
for the info.plist that are Mac specific
for your type and creator and think
stuff so and as you saw I'm not using
the about menu name property anymore
we're actually recommending people use
the bundle name instead so let's go
ahead and create this application on a
desktop Robo ok let's actually put it on
the desktop and this is going to create
an out the double clickable application
package for you now this package is
something that you could just put on a
CD or something like that and they can
just drag install to the Applications
folder air everything again is relative
to the application package so wherever
they put it it doesn't matter now what
I'm going to do is copy this these the
rest of these files and support files
into the application bundle and using
the pop-up you select show package
contents contents resources and Java
and let's just grab this all I'll just
replace that same jar that I actually
already copied over so now if I had
actually written the robotoid
application I would probably know which
of these files actually need and which I
don't but since I didn't write it I just
threw everything in there and it's not
an issue but if you're deploying your
application you know you'd want of
course not to throw in extra stuff
because it's just more to download and
stuff like that so now you can see
without actually recompiling their
application I now have the screen menu
bar up there and you know we have the
about robocode this was a default about
box that created for you I didn't set
the I didn't recompile it so I didn't
add like a preferences and you or
something like that so let's go ahead
and actually just go ahead and run this
thing and you'll see why I want to play
around with this afterwards and then I
heard that there was a way yeah go ahead
and start this out let's kind of remind
me of the old core war game except it's
much more graphical basically write
applications or little tanks that go
around and shoot each other and stuff
like that now I'm running on top of that
the 102 developer update and you can see
that graphics performance is getting
much better i'm a colo stone so if
you're having any problems with the
graphics performance i definitely
recommend downloading that update from
connectable calm and try it out so
that's the end of the demo let's go back
to slides so where's this documentation
that we have been telling me about so
that you don't have to write things down
if you go to our ADC home connecta alpha
calm you can actually download the
documentation from there you can also if
you go developer.apple.com flash java i
try and keep all the the web page up to
date with the latest
documentation that our text pub people
put out but if for some reason I fall
behind click on the documentation link
and you'll have all their stuff
including the history for the previous
releases there's a great faq that Matt
maintains and this will save a lot of
people time if they just read this it a
lot of the questions are asked on java
dev list they've already been answered
on there I'd recommend looking at before
really doing any development at all
other resources enterprise Java and Mac
OS 10 this is the course on the
developer apple com / Java page but
there's also that the direct link to
where the file is the ADC developer site
developer apple com so I stralla that's
one like I maintain try and keep up to
date for you and then just a Java
developer documentation just go to
developer apple com click on the
documentation and then they'll be a link
to the java stuff so what next later we
have the desktop and server migration to
Mac os10 job and native integration on
Mac os10 deploying on xserve and the
feedback form you have issues questions
stuff like that bring it to the feedback
form we definitely want to hear all your
comments at the ad platform through the
contact if you have more questions stuff
like that if you have business questions
you're running into issues you know you
go ahead and send something to Alan
Samuel Bob Fraser they'll hook you up
with the right people probably with a
mat and I we actually we have the page
I've been repeating about the developer
apple com flash Java page that's where
like if any new updates are posted or
something like that we announce it on
that page and then this is
an invaluable tool to develop our
mailing list at list I'll calm the java
dev mailing list I keep an archive of
every single email on that list and
working in DTF it's actually kind of
funny we'll get a bunch question a
little get questions that in that people
have answered on that list before and so
rather than waiting for us to answer the
question if people just search the
archive or kept in archives most of the
questions are actually answered on there
when that happens we just usually send
the answer back to the people and I'm
don't charge